---
title: Making Your Debian Workstation an OpenStack Management Client
author: Craige McWhirter
date: 2014-07-04
tags: Linux, Debian, OpenStack
---

#### Assumptions:
* You've already `created` your OpenStack tenant.
* You've already created your OpenStack user.
* You've already given that user permissions to that tenant.

#### Pre-Requisites for Debian 7.x workstations only:
If you're running testing or unstable, you have the lastest packages so move onto the next section. However if you're running [Debian 7.x (wheezy)](https://www.debian.org/releases/wheezy/) you will need to first add these repositories:

```bash
# echo "deb http://archive.gplhost.com/debian icehouse main" >>/etc/apt/sources.list
# echo "deb http://archive.gplhost.com/debian icehouse-backports main" >>/etc/apt/sources.list
```

and update your repository database before installing the key:

    $ sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install gplhost-archive-keyring

#### Install the Clients!:
Update your repository database then install the meta package openstack-clients:

    $ sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install openstack-clients
    The following NEW packages will be installed:
      ieee-data{a} openstack-clients python-babel{a} python-babel-localedata{a}
      python-cinderclient{a} python-cliff{a} python-cliff-doc{a} python-cmd2{a}
      python-colorama{a} python-crypto{a} python-d2to1{a} python-distlib{a}
      python-eventlet{a} python-glanceclient{a} python-greenlet{a}
      python-heatclient{a} python-html5lib{a} python-httplib2{a} python-iso8601{a}
      python-json-patch{a} python-json-pointer{a} python-jsonpatch{a}
      python-jsonschema{a} python-keyring{a} python-keystoneclient{a}
      python-mock{a} python-netaddr{a} python-neutronclient{a} python-novaclient{a}
      python-oslo.config{a} python-pbr{a} python-pip{a} python-prettytable{a}
      python-pyparsing{a} python-secretstorage{a} python-setuptools{a}
      python-simplejson{a} python-stevedore{a} python-swiftclient{a} python-tz{a}
      python-warlock{a} python-wheel{a} python-yaml{a}
    0 packages upgraded, 43 newly installed, 0 to remove and 3 not upgraded.
    Need to get 5,780 kB of archives. After unpacking 30.8 MB will be used.
    Do you want to continue? [Y/n/?] y

You'll notice that it installs a whole world of Python. Python was cool in 2005.

#### Configure Your Clients:

To configure your OpenStack clients you merely need to set four environment variables:

* `OS_USERNAME` - this contains your OpenStack username.
* `OS_PASSWORD` - this contains your OpenStack password.
* `OS_TENANT_NAME` - the name of the OpenStack tenant you wish to connect to.
* `OS_AUTH_URL` - the URL to your OpenStack authentication service.

The easiest way to do this is to put them in a file to be sourced when needed. Your `TENANT_NAME-openrc.sh` may look like this:

    export OS_USERNAME=your_username
    export OS_PASSWORD=your_password
    export OS_TENANT_NAME=your_tenant_name
    export OS_AUTH_URL=http://keystone.your.openstack.domain:35357/v2.0

When you need to use your OpenStack clients, you can source the credentials as follows::

    $ source TENANT_NAME-openrc.sh

This also allows you to perform operations as different users or on different tenants by sourcing different openrc files.
